# Installation Steps

## Client Setup

Install the gem or add it to your bundler's Gemfile:

    gem install daylight

Require and run setup, no options are needed:

    ````
        require 'daylight'

        Daylight::API.setup!
    ````

This is the same as specifying `setup!` with the following defaults:

    ````ruby
        require 'daylight'

        Daylight::API.setup!({
          namespace: 'API',
          password:  nil,
          endpoint:  'http://localhost',
          version:   'v1',
          versions:  ['v1'],
          timeout:   60
        })
    ````

You can customize each of these options:
* `namespace` is the module to which you wish ActiveResource client models to belong
* `password` supplied in the `X-Http-Authentication` header to be used for simple authentication
* `endpoint` is the URL where your server is running (a synonym for `ActiveResource#site`)
* `version` is the active version of your API client models
* `version` the set of all versions of your API client models
* `timeout` the duration in seconds in which to timeout a request

You can customize any combination of these options.

## Server Setup

Install the gem or add it to your bundler's Gemfile:

    gem install daylight

In an initializer add the Daylight's Rails extensions and patches:

  ````ruby
    require 'daylight/server'
  ````

## API Documentation

Daylight provides a Rails App Engine for autogenerated API documentation. All
docs are created on the fly by examining your routes, controllers and
ActiveRecord models.

Add this to `config/application.rb`:

  ````ruby
      require 'daylight/documentation'
  ````

And mount it in your routes:

  ````ruby
      mount Daylight::Documentation => '/docs/api'
  ````

You will also need to include your client models in your application through
Bundler or some other method.

### Rake Tasks

Add this to your `Rakefile`:

  ```ruby
    require 'daylight/tasks'
  ```

This provides two rake tasks:

  ```
    rake doc:api:generate # Pre-generate the API documentation
    rake doc:api:clean    # Clear the API documentation
  ```

The `doc:api:generate` tasks requests every page in the documentation so it can
be pre-cached.  Make sure to run it in an environment where caching is turned
on:

  ```ruby
    config.action_controller.perform_caching = true
  ```

  ```
    RAILS_ENV=production rake doc:api:generate
  ```

The `doc:api:clean` tasks clears out the documentation cache directory.


## Testing

You can use the supplied mock for [testing](testing.md) when developing your
API.

Add the following to your `test_helper.rb` or `spec_helper.rb`:

  ```ruby
    require 'daylight/mock'

    Daylight::Mock.setup
  ```

## Console

When developing your API, you will want to ensure your aliases are also updated
when you `reload!` Add the following to an initializer on your server:

  ````ruby
    require 'daylight/client_reloader'
  ````

More information about the [client reloader][develop.md#client-reloader] is
available in the development guide.
